Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to go ahead and create our project in order to start building our art
book.
So within this project we are going to utilize car data.
So this lets us save our information into a local database.
And let me show you how it's done.
So when you choose single view app make sure that you choose just use card data checkbox.
So far we haven't been checking this up but in this lecture in this app we're going to need core data
so make sure this is checked and for project name I'm going to go for art book project and you can choose
whatever you want in this app.
We're going to save the arts that our user has seen when she or he goes to a museum.
But of course we can use this for any reason any purpose that we want.
So make sure you create your app and save the folders and then we're good to go.
So let me try to make this into a full screen.
So when you first opened this app you will notice some differences.
Her examples regarding to how a different name different kind of file that we haven't had before in
our X code projects and this will let us configure the core data set up so that we can start saving
data retrieving data in the way that we want.
And remember this data is saved in the local database.
So this I.D. information is actually saved into the iPhone storage.
So whenever a user opens and closes the app or just opens and closes the phone it doesn't matter we
can reach those information from the storage itself.
OK so let me show you two different files in here.
First we have this art book our data model in here.
OK so if you click on those it will open a page like that and you will see some entities and attributes.
And we're going to go to that later.
So let me show you the app delegates.
So this is again a little bit different than before.
First of all it imported the core data framework.
And in here we see two functions in which we can save the data to the core data database and we can
retrieve the data from here as well.
So we're going to work with app delegates in this project as well.
So far we haven't been working on the app delegate at all.
But right now we're going to need this.
So let me go back to this art model art project data model so that we can configure our setup.
So maybe you remember that we're saving the image the name the year and the painter the artist itself
in our database.
OK.
So we're going to choose what they were we want to say in here we're going to create an entity an entity
is like a class.
So it defines the data model itself.
So we're going to have one entity and in this entity we're going to have different attributes.
So if you go down you will see some bobbin called the entity.
And if you click on it it will create the entity for you whenever you want.
You can just click on this twice and you can change the name.
For example I'm going to call this paintings.
You can call this art or whatever you want.
So this is like a class as I said before in which we have attributes we have properties for example
if you plus heat plus on here you can add an attribute called named for example and for Type Of course
we are going to go with string because name will be a string.
For example the artist will be string as well.
So let's choose one that is not string.
Let's go for a year for example.
It's going to be an integer and as you can see we have three integers 16 34 and 64 bits.
So the higher the bit is the higher the capacity to store the number.
So we're going to just sort the years like nineteen one hundred eighteen hundred.
So we don't need actually integer 64 I'm going to go for integer 32 if we're going to work with huge
numbers you can go with integer 64 in a later project.
Right now integer 32 is good for me.
So let's add one more we had image as you might remember.
OK.
And the image will not be a UI image this time because we don't see that type in here.
Rather we are going to go for data we going to convert our image to data and we're going to save it
to the database as data.
So choose binary data from here.
So what what does it mean to convert an image to a data we can actually do that in computer size.
So if you try to convert some image to data I think you just open that data with a text editor you will
see some gibberish characters you cannot understand that.
However Swift will be able to convert that data to an image an image to data so it won't be problem
for you d to sum up this process.
We will convert our image to our data and we will search the data in the database and then we have the
artists the image the name and the year and the final thing that we are going to add is an I.D..
So this is not mandatory but it's actually a very good practice to have one.
So what's an idea is a unique identification number or unique identification string.
OK.
And it's not going to be a number it's not going to be a string at all.
We're going to use a I.D. object in here you you I.D..
So I need to have an idea I need something to differentiate my individual arts from each other.
For example let me try to come up with a way to delete my art delete my saved paintings.
How can I differentiate that type.
Can I understand which one to delete.
It should have an idea.
Maybe I can do it from name but I can actually save two paintings with same name.
Right.
And I I can actually save two paintings which same year and it's a high probability that I can come
up with those and one artist can actually have more than one paintings.
So it's wise to have an idea in here a unique identification number or a unique identification value
that differentiates our art from each other so that we can do this operation.
And in here you will see something called you you I.D. this stance for universal unique I.D. and the
good thing is that Swift will create and take care of this for us by itself because we're not going
to be doing this manually.
Right.
If we're adding 1000 arts in our own app then we will not have to calculate the I.D. We will not have
to give manual I.D. Swift will just generate a random string get random tags that it will assign it
to be an I.D. and stop going to be a string it's going to be a you you I.D. type later on in the course
when I implement delete functionality and when I implement you you I.D. I show you the representation
of the you you I.D. you will much better understand what I mean but right now know that we're going
to leverage this app delegates we're going to leverage the model that we have just created in order
to save our data in the car later.
So now I'm going to stop here and within the next lecture we're going to start by creating our user
interface.